+++
author = "Fr. Jim"
categories = ["homilies"]
tags = ["solemnities", "2020"]
date = "2020-01-01"
description = "Solemnity of Mary, the Most Holy Mother of God"
searchdesc = "As the Mother of the Church, Mary has been a great source of strength in the spiritual life. She has been leading and guiding the Church for two thousand years through miraculous appearances, always drawing us to prayer and leading us to her Son, Jesus."
image = "/img/homilies/virgin-with-angels.jpg"
featured = "virgin-with-angels.jpg"
featuredalt = "Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for Us"
featuredpath = "/img/homilies/"
linktitle = ""
title = "Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for Us"
type = "post"
format = "homily"

+++

# Readings:
## Nm. 6:22-27; Ps. 67; Gal. 4:4-7; Lk. 2:16-21

Today, at the beginning of a new year, a new decade, we celebrate the Solemnity of Mary, the Holy Mother of God. This feast marks the culmination of the Octave of Christmas and was traditionally celebrated on the 1st of January as far back as the time of Emperor Constantine, in the fourth century, at least until it was overshadowed by the feasts of the Annunciation and the Assumption. After that, the feast day was moved to October, while today, exactly eight days after Christmas, commemorates the Circumcision of the Lord. In fact, our Gospel passage for today highlights the events of Jesus’ Presention in the Temple, but it also highlights an important aspect of Mary’s life. First, a word on Jesus’ circumcision.

The Church emphasizes Jesus’ circumcision for several reasons. 1) It marks, quite literally, the beginning of the redemption of humanity, 2) it demonstrates, by this first shedding of his blood, that Christ was fully human, and 3) it shows his obedience to Biblical Law. All this is summarized rather quickly in today’s Gospel, but were we to read ahead, we would encounter Simeon, who praises God for the child given the name of Jesus, which means “God saves”. But, what about Mary? What is her role in all this?

St. Paul emphasizes the significance of Mary by highlighting her humility. In his letter to the Galatians, he says that “God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to ransom those under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.” In other words, God, who is so far above us, chose rather to become one with us through a human mother. Jesus, the Son of God, who was born of Mary, became fully human in all things but sin. Because he shares our humanity, he is our brother, and because he shares the Father’s divinity, we are sons and daughters of God, such that we may now call God “Abba, Father!” All this took place because Mary said yes.

As the Mother of the Church, Mary has been a great source of strength in the spiritual life. She has been leading and guiding the Church for two thousand years through miraculous appearances, always drawing us to prayer and leading us to her Son, Jesus. And just as in today’s Gospel, as Mary reflected on the events of Jesus’ birth, so too does she invite us to reflect on these miraculous events of Jesus’ life. One of the best ways we can do this is by praying the Rosary.

The Rosary is not just about vocal prayer or repetition--it is a meditation. Modern people have lost the value of true reflection. If Mary kept all the events of the birth of Jesus in her heart, reflecting on them constantly, she models for us what we ought to be doing with our own spiritual life. And as one prays the Rosary, each decade of the Rosary presents a new mystery in the life of our Blessed Lord. And as one prays those Hail Mary’s, they also reflect on the meaning of that mystery. For instance, what was it like for Mary to have given birth to Jesus in a cave? Or even from today’s Gospel, what was it like hearing the witness of the shepherds? Or with Jesus’ circumcision, at the Presentation in the Temple, what was it like for Mary to encounter Simeon? What did he mean when he said, “a sword will pierce your heart?” Each decade of the Rosary allows us to enter more fully into the mysteries of Jesus’ life and by so doing, allows us to deepen our faith.

So, at the beginning of 2020, at the beginning of a new decade, let us honor Mary, the Most Holy Mother of God. Last year, I encouraged everyone to take up a devotion to the Rosary and pray it every day. I encourage everyone once again to kindle or rekindle this great devotion to the Rosary so that we, like Mary, may keep the mysteries of our faith, reflecting on them in our heart. Have a most blessed New Year. And may the Lord bless you and keep you, let his face shine upon you, and be gracious to you. And may the Lord, through the intercession of the Most Holy Mother of God, look upon you kindly and give you peace. Amen.
