+++
author = "Fr. Jim"
categories = ["homilies"]
tags = ["weekdays", "easter", "fevorinos", "2020"]
date = "2020-04-24"
description = "Friday of the Second Week of Easter"
searchdesc = "The disciples rejoice because they were found worthy to suffer for the sake of Jesus' name. During the time of pandemic, we suffer from isolation, but the psalmist gives us hope as we wait for the Lord."
image = "/img/homilies/psalm-27.jpg"
featured = "psalm-27.jpg"
featuredalt = "Psalm 27 - Wait for the Lord"
featuredpath = "/img/homilies/"
linktitle = ""
title = "One Thing I Seek: To Dwell in the House of the Lord"
type = "post"
format = "fevorino"

+++

# Friday Fevorino  
## Readings:  
## Acts 5:34-42; Ps. 27; Jn. 6:1-15

I have to admit that it has been difficult for me to pray some of the collects and prayers of the Mass, especially those that highlight the awesome reality of Jesus’ true presence in the Most Blessed Sacrament. It’s difficult for me because our congregation is not currently able to receive what Jesus has commanded me to provide. Proclaiming today’s Gospel is particularly difficult, because we all know that the sign Jesus performs of the multiplication of loaves and fish is truly a sign of the Eucharist and the participation of the masses in communion. But, these are difficult times and we are all making adjustments.

I would like to focus us on several great words of hope from today’s Psalm: “One thing I ask of the Lord this I seek: To dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life." I know that this is how many feel, especially those who have been watching Mass from home. Just the other day, I was in Zoom meeting with some of our religious education students, and they were saying: “I can’t wait to be back in church and experience it for real.” We all want things to return to normal, and that includes our worship together. But, once again, let us turn to the psalmist, who says, “I believe that I shall see the bounty of the Lord in the land of the living.” Indeed we will be back together again, but in the meantime, we do see the bounty of the Lord even here and now. We see him in the Scriptures, we see him in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, we see him in our prayers, in our homes, and in our hearts. So, let us take comfort, then, that the Lord is with us always, even if we have to be socially distant. *Wait for the Lord with courage; be stouthearted, and wait for the Lord.*

---
*Given during the COVID-19 pandemic.*