+++
author = "Fr. Jim"
categories = ["homilies"]
tags = ["weekdays", "easter", "fevorinos", "2020"]
date = "2020-05-08"
description = "Friday of the Fourth Week of Easter, Year A"
searchdesc = "We place our hope in Jesus, who invites h is disciples to have faith in him as they have faith in God, for the Father and Jesus are One."
image = "/img/homilies/Jesus-the-way-the-truth-and-the-life.jpg"
featured = "Jesus-the-way-the-truth-and-the-life.jpg"
featuredalt = "Jesus - The Alpha and the Omega"
featuredpath = "/img/homilies/"
linktitle = ""
title = "Our Hope is in Jesus: The Way, the Truth, and the Life"
type = "post"
format = "fevorino"

+++

# Friday Fevorino  
## Readings:  
## Acts 13:26-33; Ps. 2; Jn. 14:1-6

Today, St. Paul continues to preach that Jesus is the Messiah, showing how what is described in the second Psalm is fulfilled in Jesus. In the Gospel, Jesus encourages his disciples to have faith in him as the gate. He says, “Do not let your hearts be troubled. You have faith in God; have faith also in me.” This is the same appeal St. Paul is making in Antioch, preaching to the Jews, who all believe in God, but have yet to believe in Jesus as the Messiah. If they want eternal life, all they have to do is recognize and believe that Jesus was sent from God, suffered, died, and rose from the dead, and has returned to God. And if he has returned, he will prepare a place for those who follow him. This is the goal of the Christian: to be in the place prepared for us by Christ. And so, we place our hope in Jesus, the Good Shepherd, the way, the truth, and the life...the gate to eternal life.

---
*Given during the COVID-19 pandemic.*