+++
author = "Fr. Jim"
categories = ["homilies"]
tags = ["sundays", "2020"]
date = "2020-01-26"
description = "Third Sunday of Ordinary Time"
featured = "jesus-reading-scroll.jpg"
featuredalt = "Jesus Reading from Isaiah"
featuredpath = "/img/homilies/"
linktitle = ""
title = "Sunday of the Word of God"
type = "post"

+++

# Readings:
## Is. 8:23-9:3; Ps. 27; 1 Cor. 1:10-13, 17; Mt. 4:12-17

Pope Francis has declared this Third Sunday in Ordinary Time to be “Sunday of the Word of God.” The purpose of this particular emphasis is to promote a closer relationship with holy Scripture and its spread throughout the world. As Catholics, we believe that all Scripture is the Word of God, written by sacred authors under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. To that end, the pope is encouraging all Catholics to embark on a journey with the sacred text. What might this look like? It could be as simple as setting aside ten minutes every day to read through one book of the Bible. Or, maybe you could join a Bible Study at your parish. We will be starting a new study on the Gospel of Mark in a couple months. Another way to journey with scripture is type of prayer called lectio divina. Lectio means “read,” and divina means “divine,” so a “divine reading.” This prayer is very simple. You take this Sunday’s Gospel and read it slowly out loud, then you read it again quietly, then you meditate on a word or phrase that stands out to you. The Word of God speaks to each of us in a way only we can appreciate. But, if we’re not listening, if we’re not engaged with his Word, how will we know what he has to say to us? Lectio is great for families too because the whole family can gather around the Bible, light a candle, and share what Jesus is saying to them. Some food for thought as we embrace the Word of God through sacred Scripture this year.
	
I want to shift gears a bit and focus on the recent events that took place this week in our nation’s capital. On Friday, tens of thousands of peaceful protestors gathered for the 47th annual March for Life. People came from all over the country to walk shoulder-to-shoulder with others who support life. The right to life is the preeminent issue for the church, our country, and the world today. Every human being is made in the image and likeness of God. This gives us special dignity and the unalienable right to life. To see so many people gathered together to support life is awesome. It was also the first time a president attended the March, and by default, the first time a president has ever spoken at the March. And, whether people want to call it a publicity stunt, politics, or both, one of the most notable moments of his speech was when he called out the tens of thousands of young people who were present, saying, “Young people are the heart of the March for Life, and it’s your generation that is making America the pro-family, pro-life nation.” What the president keyed in on was the reality that all the prayers, all the witness, the legislation, the blood, sweat, and tears, that have gone into the March for Life, after all this time, is starting to bear fruit, and it’s happening in the hearts of the young. And if young people are becoming more and more pro-life, that is a direct result of their parents and the countless others who paved the way for them. We stand united with them. And this has been an ongoing trend at the March for Life. In a census taken ten years ago, it was estimated that half of those attending the March were of high school or college age. I offer this insight as a matter of fact. We Catholics, who uphold the dignity of life from conception to natural death, along with countless others, stand united in the cause for life, and we are winning.
	
Speaking of standing united, this past week was the Annual Week for Christian Unity—a time when Christians of all denominations seek to build unity. And while there remain many sticking points among the different denominations, one area we all agree on is the Word of God, sacred Scripture. Is was Jesus’ own prayer to the Father that we might all be one as the Father is one with the Son (Jn. 17:21). Through the Word of God we share a common Gospel, a common Creed, and a common baptism that draws us closer together in Christ. So, on this Sunday of the Word of God, may our prayers seek to unite us to God and one another, strengthening the bond of faith.

The prophet Isaiah foreshadowed the coming of the Christ when he said, “The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; upon those who dwelt in the land of gloom a light has shone.” These beautiful words of encouragement show a shift in the tide, from a time of oppressive rule to a time of living peace. A similar statement was made by Simeon during the Presentation of our Blessed Lord in the Temple. These words of Simeon are repeated every night in the Liturgy of the Hours during Night Prayer. Simeon said, “Lord, now you let your servant go in peace; your word has been fulfilled: my own eyes have seen the salvation which you have prepared in the sight of every people: a light to reveal you to the nations and the glory of your people Israel” (Lk. 2:30-32). That light, brothers and sisters, is Jesus Christ, the Incarnate Word of God, who came preaching glad tidings and showing us the way to the kingdom, so that we might share eternity with him. And as a foretaste of heaven, he has given us the true bread from heaven, the Eucharist, his very body and blood, given for the forgiveness of sins. This is how God reconciles the world, one Mass at a time, one sacrifice at a time. All this has been made possible because God speaks to his people. So, as we celebrate this Sunday of the Word of God, the strengthening of a more pro-life, pro-family nation, and unity among Christians, let us commit to continue building a culture of life by reading the Book of Life. So, pick up a Bible today. I guarantee, it will change your life forever.

